about teen link
The goal of Teen Link is to empower youth by supporting them in making healthy decisions. However, if you are having an emergency, please call 911.
Teen Link Help Line 1.866.TEENLINK (1.866.833.6546)
Teen Link is a confidential, non-judgmental telephone help line answered by teens each evening from 6-10pm. Teen volunteers are trained to listen to your concerns and talk with you about whatever is on your mind. No issue is too big or too small. Phone workers also have access to an extensive database of resources and can give you information on agencies serving youth in Washington State, as well as how to choose which one to use. After hours, callers have the option of talking to the
WA Recovery Help Line, King County Crisis Line, or leaving a message on the Teen Link voicemail. When leaving a message, please include your name, phone number, and information about your concerns. To respect confidentiality, Teen Link phone workers will not leave a message when calling back unless you specify that it is okay to do so.
Teen Link Chat & Text
In addition to our telephone help line, Teen Link offers Teen Link Chat through our website at www.teenlink.org and Teen Link Text by texting 1.866.833.6546. Much like the phone line, teens can use Teen Link Chat and Text to seek support from our teen volunteers on a variety of issues, including bullying, drug and alcohol concerns, relationships, stress, and other issues. Teen Link accepts chats and texts from 6-9:30pm every day of the week. Teen Link Chat works best on a computer.
King County 2-1-1
You can call 211 to find resources online for teens who want to find out more about health and human services throughout Washington State. To search for resources online, visit www.wa211.org.
Teen Link Substance Use Prevention Line (2-10 pm M-F)
If a teen or an adult concerned about a teen has questions or concerns about drug use, they can now call, chat, or text to connect directly with a Teen Link Substance Use Prevention Clinician. Our staff are able to assist callers with strategies to prevent teen drug use, access to drug education materials, referrals to treatment, organizing outreach, drug education clinics, and more. To reach us, simply call or text 1.866.833.6546 or chat by going to www.teenlink.org and clicking on the “Chat” page.
WA Recovery Help Line
As part of the Washington Recovery Line, the Teen Link Substance Use Prevention Line provides support to youth and adults across Washington State who have questions about substance abuse, problem gambling, or mental health. Call them at 1.866.789.1511 or see the “Alcohol, Drugs, & Substance Use” section for more information.
Suicide Prevention Training for Students
Crisis Connections offers this training in King County and surrounding areas by qualified trainers. It includes information on youth suicide and an overview of local resources. These trainings help teens identify warning signs, talk directly about suicide, and support themselves and others who may be deal- ing with a mental health challenge. Students are encouraged to talk openly about stress, coping, depression, and suicidal behavior. To schedule a training or get more information, please call Crisis Connections at 206.204.9520. These trainings can also be delivered virtually.
Where to Turn for Teens (WTTFT)
Where to Turn for Teens is updated annually and published in September. This resource guide is an effective way to connect young adults with agencies serving youth.
If you:
are interested in ordering WTTFT, or work for an agency listed in WTTFT and need to
update your information
Please email info@crisisconnections.org or call 206.461.3210.
Teen Link Volunteer Opportunities
Volunteering is a great way to develop leadership skills, learn about community resources, and connect with other youth. For more information about volunteering, call 1.866.833.6546 between 6-10pm or visit our website.
Volunteer Positions
Youth Outreach Specialist (13-19) Represent Teen Link in your school/community.
Youth Crisis Specialist (15-19) Provide emotional support and referrals to teens who call the help line or use Teen Link Chat or Text.
Peer Advisory Committee (15-19) Be part of Teen Link’s future by keeping the program youth-driven and relevant to youth experiences.
Youth Crisis Mentor (20+) Coach teen volunteers during calls, chats, and text. Offer guidance on engaging callers, de- brief after calls have ended, and ensure appropriate protocols are followed.
Internship/Externship
Adults (18+) can gain agency and practice experience as either a phone worker or mentor. This experience can count towards clinical or service hours needed to obtain an undergraduate or graduate-level degree in programs related to psychology, mental health, and social work. Email teenlink@crisisconnections.org for details.