suicide & self-harm (non-suicidal self-injury)
Did you know that there are almost two suicide deaths every week for people under the age off 19 in Washington state
~WA Department of Health
Suicide - Warning Signs for Suicide Include:
~WA Department of Health
Changes in eating and sleeping patterns Dropping hints, talking about suicide, or making a plan Talking about feeling hopeless, trapped, or like a burden - Withdrawing or isolating from close friends and family Giving away prized possessions Being very obsessive and perfectionistic Acting anxious or agitated Engaging in risky behaviors (driving recklessly,
increased substance use, etc.)
Consider The Following Questions To Help You Determine The Urgency:
How many warning signs are present? How long have the warning signs been present? How extreme or severe are the warning signs?
If you are concerned that you or someone you know may be suicidal, it is important to address the situation immediately. Mentioning suicide will not give the person the idea or push them over the edge. They may feel relieved that someone is willing to talk about what they’re thinking and feeling. Sharing your concerns can prevent a suicide attempt from occurring and can save a life.
How To Help - Step One Is A Great Way To Ask About Any Issue
Show you care Talk to the person you are concerned about in a caring manner Be specific about the warning signs you have noticed Listen without judgement suicide & self-harm (nonsuicidal self-injury)
Ask the question directly “Are you thinking about suicide/killing yourself?”
Talk to an adult you trust
It is important that you do not keep this secret for someone. If someone is talking about being suicidal, they are asking for help.
These are some initial steps toward ongoing mental health care. Every situation regarding suicide is different. Call Teen Link @ 1.866.833.6546 to talk to a trained phone worker in more detail about how to get help. If you need immediate crisis intervention services or feel like you need to talk to someone right away, these are numbers you can call to discuss your concerns:
Self-Harm (Nonsuicidal Self-Injury)
Some people experiencing mental challenges such as depres- sion or anxiety turn to self-harm as a way of releasing and managing emotions. In most cases, these actions are not done as suicide attempts but as coping methods for people to help manage the mental pain they are feeling. Some people self- harm to numb their feelings while others may harm themselves to feel something. Cutting, scratching, and burning are common ways people will harm themselves, but self-harm includes any intentional act that a person does to hurt their body.
Finding alternatives to self-harm can be challenging, but journaling about the emotions and events that lead to the behaviors can help a person understand why they do it, what other activities could help satisfy those emotional needs, and how to talk to someone about getting support. Creative outlets like drawing and painting can also be helpful ways of expressing and describing feelings.
When talking to someone about self-harm, it’s important to stay focused on the harmful behavior itself and not jump to conclusions about suicide. For example, it is more beneficial to ask about what specific actions and events trigger their urges to self-harm than to ask if they harm themselves because they’re suicidal. If you have any questions or concerns about self-harm, give us a call or text at 1.866.833.6546.